Download

Source

PDF
Actions
   Copy Project
   Word Count
Sync
   Dropbox
   Git
   GitHub
Settings
Compiler

Track changes is on
Towards Demystifying Transformations of Tchaikovsky’s Children’s Album with
Support of Computational Models: Problem Conceptualization


Abstract—Though the studies of rich metaphors hidden in the
musical compositions lay mostly in scope of art and musicology,
there is still large space for formal methods based on mathe-
matical models and computer technology that can be helpful in
discovering complementary insights to how the composition is
structured, what are its relationships to the precursors’ works,
and how it affects the later works of the same or other authors.
Our idea is to investigate how computational models can enhance
musicology research on music style identification and comparative
analysis using the case study of Tchaikovsky’s Children’s Album.
Keywords–Musicology; music information retrieval; human-
centric computing; similarity; music modeling.
I. INTRODUCTION
In my recent talk on Jan 6th, 2021, in the University of
Aizu “Tchaikovsky. Children’s (?) Album: Time, Metaphors,
Rediscoveries” [1], I discussed the phenomenon of Piotr
Tchaikovsky’s “Children’s Album” for piano solo (Op. 39) [2].
This masterpiece was composed and published as far as in
1878, but today it still remains one of constant topics of interest
for researchers [3], [4]. Though the study of rich metaphors
hidden in the pieces thought to be for children rather lies in the
scope of art and musicology, there is still a large research space
for formal methods based on mathematical and computational
models, which may give additional insights into our under-
standing of the structure and organization of the whole work,
its relationships to precursors such as “43 Clavierst ̈ucke f ̈ur die
Jugend” by Robert Schumann [5], as well as the reasons for
significant differences between the original manuscript and the
first published edition. Surprisingly, in musicology literature,
one of the first careful studies of transformations between
the manuscript and the published edition can be found in the
early 1990s only; thus, more than 100 years after the whole
work was completed [6], [7]. These studies mostly remain in
scope of music and art theory, with almost no involvement
of machine learning approaches. Today, it is commonly not
disputed that computer science and artificial intelligence may
contribute to musicology research on music style identification
and comparative analysis. In this study we try to discover
appropriate formal models that would enhance the analysis and
understanding of Tchaikovsky’s “Children’s Album”, which
can be considered as a very good example of applied human-
centric computing research in the frame of art and humanities,
where solutions cannot be designed within a certain context
only, but require intensive cross-disciplinary efforts so as to
bridge the communities working in different contexts and using
different vocabularies [8].
II. RELATED WORK
According to Nattiez, music is a symbolic fact charac-
terized by the complex configuration of interpretants [9]. In
music, we use various connected but independent models
including letter-based notations such as Helmholz or scientific
pitch notation (that can be considered as simple syntax based
language constructions), complex symbolic notations in the
form of graphic note scores ranging from hardly formalizable
ancient models such as Znamenny chant, at one pole, or
relatively strict Mensural notation, at another pole, up to
modern sheet music (based on many rules but giving some
freedom to support the individual styles of composers), piano
roll notation, tablature, MIDI representations, as well as audio
signals and even spectral models such as acoustic fingerprints.
The great variety of models used for music representation is
one of reasons why music provides an interesting and complex
use case for experimenting with information retrieval, object
recognition and classification algorithms. Music representation
complexity can be explained by the presence of two arrays of
elements and relationships, where the first one corresponds
to the elements that can be treated mathematically (such as
pitch, rhythm, or harmony), while the second one includes
non-mathematical elements such as tension, expectancy, and
emotion [10].
A. Bridging the gap between pure musicology and applied
human-centric computer technology
Current approaches to music similarity evaluation (in-
cluding our own work on melody extraction and similarity
estimation using Earth Mover’s Distance algorithms [11])
mostly target the searching and retrieval systems including
well-known apps such as Shazam [12], without a perfect fit
to the problems of stylistic similarity evaluation. From this
point of view, models of functional representation of music
harmony and harmonic similarity estimation [13] seem to be
more adequate to the problem of style identification. Indeed,
usually, listeners can recognize similarity of compositions
because of their harmonic similarity (see Figure 1). However,
it does not immediately lead us to clearly conclude about the
composition’s stylistic resemblances or dependencies. Even
harmonic equivalence may not be enough to recognize the
melody, as demonstrated in [14] and later analyzed in [15]
in the experiments with melodies distorted by substituting the
note octave by randomly selected ones within three octaves:
every note in the sequence keeps its position on the scale,
but the tune varies over a three-octave range (similarly to an
example of such distortion shown in Figure 2).
Figure 1. Harmony resemblance between Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata and
its variation
Figure 2. Distorted note sequence of Beethoven’s Moonlight Sonata with
keeping harmonic equivalence)
Harmonic functions were core elements of SPEAC music
representation system developed by Cope [16], [17], which is
an implementation of augmented transition network, a finite-
state automaton with recursive succession rules between music
sub-phrases allowing for logical syntax substitutions [18].
Cope’s SPEAC system is based on a hierarchical representation
of the structure of music composition in nested contexts
beginning from notes and chords up to chapters and parts (see
Figure 3 (a)). Five identifiers contributing to SPEAC acronym
stand for statement S, preparation P , extension E, antecedent
A, and consequent C, all of which are kinds of abstractions
assigned to groups of notes “depending on levels of tension
between intervals, metrical placement, and agogic emphasis,
measured both in the preceding and following groups” [18].
Succession rules defined by Cope limit possible transitions
between the SPEAC states (see Figure 3 (b)). Therefore,
SPEAC progressions are like genome sequences using SPEAC
identifiers as bases enforced by harmonic tension weights
and hierarchical relationships between progressions at different
levels. Modeling music structure using SPEAC-analysis can be
a promising approach to model music style similarity through
SPEAC progression similarity as well as similarity between
the corresponding graphs that can be constructed, specifically
with respect to recent implementations available as libraries in
universal languages such as Python [19].
Due to a large number of applications of using deep neural
networks for object recognition and classification (especially
for image recognition, including such subjective trait as image
aesthetics), machine learning approaches and recurrent neural
networks may be promising for music style identification,
Figure 3. Progression bases in SPEAC system by David Cope.
classification and analysis. Though, in contrast to a variety of
works on computer music generation, we argue that the main
challenge is not to teach AI to create art objects, but to be able
to help us in perceiving objects created by humans [20].
B. Renditions and Implications of “Children’s Album”
Since both Tchaikovsky and Schumann belong to the ro-
mantic tradition rooted in part of leitmotif music by Beethoven
and Wagner, on the one hand, and in the new music language of
Glinka, Chopin and Liszt, on the other hand, certain harmony
and music development similarity surely exists in their works.
According to the network of influences on classical composers
originally described by Smith and Georges et al. in the original
Classical Music Navigator [21], Schumann is one of composers
who greatly influenced Tchaikovsky (along with Balakirev,
Beethoven, Chopin, Delibes and others) as shown in Figure 4,
However, admitting Schumann’s influence to Tchaikovsky
does not lead us to automatically judge the “Children’s Album”
as an imitation of Schumann’s pieces for the young (also with
long history of editions but rather few scholarly studies [23])
even though Tchaikovsky claimed it explicitly in the subtitle
for the published edition “24 simple pieces for children like
Schumann” (but not in the manuscript! [24]. What if this
subtle (?) subtitle is a kind of hint that Tchaikovsky gave
us? Like saying: “Well, it is definitely not “like Schumann”!
Should you then believe in the appropriateness of all made
transformations?” These transformations (see Figure 5) destroy
the structure of the album as an indissociable whole, and
deform the micro-cycles existing in the manuscripts (where
the Doll cycle is the clearest case), as well as harmonic links
such as between the first and the last pieces in the manuscript,
“Morning prayer” and “The hurdy-gurdy man is singing”,
respectively.
An idea that changes in the order of compositions between
the manuscript and first published edition were mistakenly in-
troduced by the publisher could not be accepted as convincing
enough: indeed, Tchaikovsky approved this version. Nekhaeva
suggested that these transformations can be considered as a
“gesture of the composer, a natural desire to overcome the
temporary barrier and directly appeal to future generations of
musicians” [4]. This opinion supports an existing hypothesis
claiming that Tchaikovsky probably preferred to hide some
metaphors so that they are not so explicitly exposed as in the
manuscript. From the perspective of musicology, we could not
expect to find a final answer (and perhaps it is not needed).
Instead, a possibility to incorporate formal computational
approaches into informal art discourse can, produce a number
of important additional insights for better understanding of
genesis of one of Tchaikovsky’s masterpieces in piano music.
